integrate typescript with the invit
project in this lesson we're going to
see how to integrate es link which is a
static analyzis tool for JavaScript so
let's get started and in our main. ES
file we're going to add one es link
violation let's add a semicolon after
this function declaration and since
we're going to have to make es link
analyze typescript files there is a
special plug-in for it that we can use
called typescript es link this tool
basically enables es L support for
typescript and as always the first thing
we have to do before using this plugin
is to install all necessary dependencies
so let's copy over this commment and run
it in our terminal on the next step we
will actually have to create
configuration file for eslint with the
name eslint RC do CJs and paste there
the following content so in my editor
I'm going to create new file with this
name paste here all the content I have
just copied and then again let's go back
to the browser and as a third step we
are ready to run our es l so to execute
es L we need to run npx ESL and as an
argument into this comment we specify
the folder where es link should be
executed in our case it's fine to
specify a root folder of our project so
I'm going to use dot let's execute this
command in a terminal and as we can see
as a result there are a lot more errors
as we have initially expected and among
all these errors we also can see that
error we have made intentionally by
adding semicolon to the end of the
function declaration and by the way the
rest of errors are coming from analyz
and JavaScript files so so we need to
ignore all the JavaScript files and run
yesl only within typescript files and to
tell yes L which files it should ignore
we can create special file for eslint
called eslint ignore and here we can
list those files that should be ignored
so to ignore all JavaScript files we can
use the following notation asterisk do
JS so after that if we're going to
execute npx es lint again we're going to
see only one error which is that error
that is coming from our typescript file
where we have intentionally added
semicolon to the end of function
declaration so as we can see to run ESL
checks in withd projects we need to
start a separate ESL process alongside
our main VD build process and this is
also recommended by VD to prevent
deferring main build process but if you
don't want to do this and prefer that VD
will run es link during the build
process we can achieve it by installing
the following plugin with plugin Checker
we have already used this plugin in the
previous lesson when we were integrating
typescript within vid project but
besides of integrating typescript this
plugin is also capable of integrating
other tools and one of such tools is as
link and this time we're not going to
install this plugin again since we have
already installed it in the previous
lesson so in here let's open up
documentation to run eslint and the
first thing to do before running eslint
is actually install eslint executable on
a system and then we're going to make V
use this executable to run es L checks
and to achieve it we need to copy the
following lines go to our re
configuration file with config JS and
paste those lines in here like this here
we're basically specifying the command
which will be used to run as L and as we
can see this command also contains P to
files that es Lane should scan and since
in our case types script files is
located within the root of our project
let's correct this pass by removing
Source folder and after this if we open
up our browser again we're going to see
e lint error in here so our es lint
integration works perfectly and now
every time wi is going to build our
project at the same time is going to run
eslint analyzer and show all eslint
errors in the following form and by the
way the same output we can see in the
server locks in the terminal top where
we executed npm runev command and now
just to see if this error is going to
disappear we're going to switch over to
main.ts and remove this semicolon from
here going back to the browser again and
this time we don't see any es lint
errors and of course message saying that
no errors were found appears in the logs
right here and this is how easy it is to
integrate es lint into VD
projects VD offers handy feature called